# MSCS532_Assignment3

## Overview
This repository contains an analysis of the **Randomized QuickSort** algorithm and the implementation of a **hash table with chaining**. The project includes Python scripts to demonstrate the behavior and performance of these two data structures, with visual outputs generated as evidence.

The primary components of the project are:
- Randomized QuickSort analysis through runtime data and graphing.
- Hash table implementation with chaining for handling collisions.
- Generated output images showcasing the results of the algorithms.

## Project Structure

- **evidences/**: A directory containing images that showcase the results of the algorithms.
  - `runtime_graph.png`: The runtime graph generated by `randomized_quicksort.py`, depicting the algorithm’s performance.
  - `runtime_data.png`: A chart visualizing the runtime data for different input sizes from `randomized_quicksort.py`.
  - `hash_table.png`: The output image generated from `hash_table_chaining.py` showing the distribution of keys in the hash table and outputs for sample insert and delete.

- **randomized_quicksort.py**: Python script that performs an analysis of the **Randomized QuickSort** algorithm vs **Deterministic QuickSort**. It generates runtime data and graphs based on different input sizes.
  
- **hash_table_chaining.py**: Python script that implements a **hash table** with **chaining** to handle collisions. It visualizes how keys are distributed across the hash table.

- **Analysis_Report.pdf**: A report regarding the analysis of quicksort algorithms and hash table. 

- **requirements.txt**: A file containing the dependencies required to run the Python code. Use this file to set up the Python environment.

## Getting Started

To get started with the project, follow the instructions below to set up your environment and run the Python scripts.

### 1. Install dependencies:
The project requires several Python libraries that are listed in `requirements.txt`. You can install them using `pip`. Run the following command to install the dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Run Python Code:
Run the following command to run `randomized_quicksort`:
```bash
python3 randomized_quicksort.py
```

Run the following command to run `hash_table_chaining`:
```bash
python3 hash_table_chaining.py
```



